Storage SRA (#117)
ARM-software/psa-api: doc/storage/appendix/sra.rst

      -  `T.MITM`  `T.REPLACE`

   *  -  `M.VerifyReplies`
      -  In `DM.AUTHORIZED` and `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL` the Storage Service must verify all replies from the partition that implements storage, to ensure that they do indeed come from the expected partition and no errors are reported. 
      -  `T.MITM`  `T.REPLACE`      
      

User-level mitigations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:numref:`tab-sra-residual-risk` lists mitigations that are transferred to the application or other external components. These are also known as 'residual risks'.

.. list-table:: Mitigations that are **transferred** to the application
   :name: tab-sra-residual-risk
   :widths: 1 2 
   :header-rows: 1
   :class: longtable
   
   
   *  -  Mitigations
      -  Description

   *  -  `M.UseSecurepartitions`
      -  In all deployments, if the caller wants to be certain that there is no chance of eavesdropping, they should make use of caller isolation, with each caller in its own isolated partition. 

> Mitigations rquired by each Deployment Model

Reviewer: Spelling: 'required'

Reviewer: Mis-spelling still present

:deployment-model:`EXPOSED`
  The :term:`PRoT` partition does not have sole access to the area of non-volatile storage, thus the Storage Medium can be read or written by another partition or by other means. This means that the driver code, or the Storage Medium resides outside the :term:`PRoT` and is accessible to other partitions or by other means, as shown in  as shown in :numref:`fig-exposed`. Therefore, attackers can bypass the Storage Service.

  The Storage Service is the arbitrator of access from different applications and manages those data accesses (write, update and deletion). Therefore, the Storage Service is responsible for the `SG.CONFIDENTIALITY`, `SG.INTEGRITY` and `SG.CURRENCY` goal with respect to preventing access by a different caller.

  The Storage Service cannot prevent other partitions or other means from reading or writing the storage, or accessing the link DF3. Therefore, the Storage Service is responsible for the `SG.CONFIDENTIALITY`, `SG.INTEGRITY` and `SG.CURRENCY` goals.

  An example of this deployment model is the use of a file system on a flash chip.

>   .. figure:: /figure/dm-exposed.*

Reviewer: This figure should also be moved up the section to match with the other DMs

*   The :cite-title:`PSM` assumes that at least the code in the :term:`Root of Trust` partitions (:term:`PRoT` and :term:`ARoT`) are verified at boot, and on any update. Therefore, it is assumed that this code is trustworthy. If any malicious code can run in the RoT partitions, it has achieved full control. 

*   For the purposes of this analysis, it is assumed that in deployment models `DM.AUTHORISED` and `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL`, there is no way to access the stored data without going through the authenticated channel. That is, an attack that would expose the physical Storage Medium is beyond the resources of the attacker. 

*   The analysis ignores attacks that only result in a denial of service. There are many ways an attacker can deny service to the complete system, with or without involving the Storage Service. 

*   The analysis only looks at an active attack. However, data is also subject to accidental modification, for example from cosmic radiation causing a bit flip. Therefore, standard engineering practice - such as use of error correcting codes - should be taken to protect data.

Goals
^^^^^

:security-goal:`CONFIDENTIALITY`

>   The Storage Service will ensure that no data stored can be read, except by the caller that stored it.

Author: Accepted

:security-goal:`INTEGRITY`
  The Storage Service will ensure that data returned to a caller was the data previously stored by that caller. 

:security-goal:`CURRENCY`
  The Storage Service will ensure that data returned to a caller is the most recent version of the data stored by that caller.

Deployment Models
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

:deployment-model:`PROTECTED`

> 

Author: I believe this is fixed.

  
  An example of this deployment model is the use of on-chip flash or OTP with an access control mechanism such as a Memory Protection Unit. 

  
  .. figure:: /figure/protected.*
   :name: fig-protected

   Trust boundaries in the Deployment Model `DM.PROTECTED`
  

:deployment-model:`EXPOSED`

  The :term:`PRoT` partition does not have sole access to the area of non-volatile storage, thus the storage can be read or written by another partition or by other means. This means that the driver code, or the storage interface or the Storage Medium resides outside the :term:`PRoT` and is accessible to other partitions or by other means, as shown in  as shown in :numref:`fig-exposed`. Therefore, attackers can bypass the Storage Service. 
  
  The Storage Service is the arbitrator of access from different applications and manages those data accesses (write, update and deletion). Therefore, the Storage Service is responsible for the `SG.CONFIDENTIALITY` goal requirements of each caller.
  

>   The Storage Service cannot prevent other partitions or other means from reading or writing the storage. Therefore, the Storage Service must support the `SG.CONFIDENTIALITY`, `SG.INTEGRITY` and `SG.CURRENCY` goals. 

Author: This was just a lack of precision on my part. 
I have used "is responsible for" in each case.

  
  An example of this deployment model is the use of a file system on a flash chip. 

  .. figure:: /figure/exposed.*
   :name: fig-exposed

   Trust boundaries in the Deployment Model `DM.EXPOSED`

 

> :deployment-model:`AUTHORISED`

Author: Accepted

  
  Therefore, the authentication mechanism must be protected.  In other words, the means of generating the authenticated command and verifying the response must be available only to the Storage Service. This implies that there are confidentiality and integrity goals on any secrets used for this purpose.
  
  The authorisation and verification mechanism provided by the storage controls access to data (reads, writes and modification). This supports the `SG.INTEGRITY` and `SG.CURRENCY` goals.
  
  However, the communication between the Storage Service and the Storage Medium is observable by other partitions and any other means as any data sent in plain text can be observed. Therefore, the Storage Service must support `SG.CONFIDENTIALITY`.  For cryptographic based solutions, this implies that there are confidentiality and integrity goals on any secrets used in cryptographic implementation.
  
  An example of this deployment model is the use of an RPMB memory block. 

  .. figure:: /figure/authorised.*
   :name: fig-authorised

   Trust boundaries in the Deployment Model `DM.AUTHORISED`

  

> :deployment-model:`SECURE_CHANNEL`

Reviewer: A minor issue. The length of this deployment model tag/name slightly disturbs the layout of the risk reporting in the Threats. If this could be a shorter tag, it would improve the visual clarity of those sections. Is 'SECURE_LINK' a reasonable alternative?

   *  Conduct side-channel analysis that requires measurement equipment. For example, this can utilize leakage sources such as EM emissions, power consumption, photonics emission, or acoustic channels.
   *  Plug malicious hardware into an unmodified system.
   *  Gain access to the internals of the target system and interpose the SoC or memory for the purposes of reading, blocking, replaying, and injecting transactions.
   *  Replace or add chips on the motherboard.
   *  Make simple, reversible modifications, to perform glitching.

:adversarial-model:`3`
   In addition to all the above, the Adversary is capable of performing invasive SoC attacks.

   For instance, the Adversary can:

   *  Decapsulate a chip, via laser or chemical etching, followed by microphotography to reverse engineer the chip.
   *  Use a focussed ion beam microscope to perform gate level modification.

The adversarial models that are in scope for storage depend on the product requirements. To ensure that the |API| can be used in a wide range of systems, this assessment considers adversarial models `AM.0`, `AM.1`, and `AM.2` to be in-scope.

.. _usability:

.. _sra-threats:

Threats

> ^^^^^^^

Author: yes

Code in the RoT partitions is assumed to be trustworthy - and any untrustworthy code running in that partition already has complete control of the target - therefore in `AM.1` we only consider threats from malicious actors running in :term:`Non-secure Processing Environment`. 

When considering threats, we transfer the risk of protecting different users within a single partition to the operating system or run time within that partition.

> 

Reviewer: There is a missing T.INTERFACE_ABUSE threat. For example see the FWU SRA: https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/blob/80ea7319d0e86fae6d4328cf28ee3d188461ae69/doc/fwu/appendix/sra.rst?plain=1#L626

.. threat:: Reading data for a different caller using the API
   :id: SPOOFREAD

   .. deployment model:: `DM.PROTETED` `DM.EXPOSED` `DM.AURTORISED` `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL`  
   .. description::

>       In all Deployment Models, an attacker may attempt to read data stored for another caller using the Storage API.

Reviewer: Please avoid 'may'. In this case, use a present-tense form:

```suggestion
      In all Deployment Models, an attacker attempts to read data stored for another caller using the Storage API.
```

The same comment applies to other Threat descriptions.

      
      In `DM.AUTHORISED`, as the commands and data are sent and received in the clear, albeit with an authorization, anything on the bus, or with access to intermediate data buffers, can eavesdrop and obtain the messages. Therefore, the implementation must apply `M.Encrypt` to the data before it leaves the :term:`PRoT`. 

      In `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL`, if the external location is accessed without using a Secure Channel, an adversary with access to the bus (`AM.2`) can trivially eavesdrop on the messages. If the Secure Channel is not rooted in the :term:`PRoT` then any adversary (`AM.1`) in the partition in which the channel terminates will be able to eavesdrop on traffic leaving the :term:`PRoT` before it is encrypted. However, the stored data does not need to be separately encrypted data beyond the protection provided by the Secure Channel. . 
      
   .. mitigations:: 

>       :mitigation:`Encrypt` For `DM.EXPOSED` and `DM.AUTHORISED`, the data at rest must be encrypted. The Storage Service must apply the encryption to the data before it leaves the :term:`PRoT` partition. The encryption mechanism chosen must be sufficiently robust. The key used for encryption must be sufficiently protected, that is it must only be available to the Storage Service. 

Reviewer: > The key used for encryption must be sufficiently protected, that is it must only be available to the Storage Service.

This is a common theme, for any mitigation that relies on cryptographic secrets, but also for the cryptographic secrets used with the external component for securing the DM.AUTHORIZED and DM.SECURE_CHANNEL designs.

I think that this might warrant describing an additional threat, or threats, against disclosure or tampering with the secrets that provide a cryptographic foundation for these other mitigations. The mitigations for those threats would be that the secrets are inaccessible outside the PRoT, perhaps read-only as well, and unique per device?

      
      For `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL` if the secure channel is set up without authorisation, it would be vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack. Given that in this implementation we are not expecting encryption of the data - other than by the channel itself - the attacker would have full access to stored data. 

   .. mitigations:: 
      `M.Encrypt` Encryption ensures that the Man-in-the-middle does not know what data is being transferred. It also means they cannot force a specific value to be stored.  
    
      :mitigation:`MAC` In `DM.EXPOSED`, applying a Message Authentication Code or a signature or using an authenticated encryption scheme means that the Storage Service can check the integrity of the data when it is read back from the Storage Medium.
      

>       :mitigation:`UniqueKeys` For `DM.AUTHORISED` and `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL`, requiring keys used by the storage partition to be unique to each instance ensures that an attacker can only learn the key used on this instance on this specific instance. They cannot construct a class break by discovering the key for a single instance. 

Reviewer: Clarify 'instance' - presumably this means at least 'device instance', but could mean 'storage service instance', if there was more than one on a single device?

   
      :mitigation:`VerifyReplies` In `DM.AUTHORISED`, commands and replies are authenticated by the Storage Medium. Therefore, the man-in-the-middle should not be able to create a valid reply indicating that the data has been stored when it has not. Provided the Storage Service validates replies, it can be sure that the data it sent was correctly stored, and the data retrieved is the value previously stored.  

      :mitigation:`AuthenticateEndpoints` In `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL`, provided the secure channel set up includes mutual authentication of the Storage Service and the Storage Medium, both sides can be sure there is no MITM. This could be because the channel uses a single key known only to both parties.  
      

>       :mitigation:`Replay Protection`  in both `DM.AUTHORISED` and `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL` if the communication protocol includes protection against replay, normally achieved by including a nonce in the construction, it will detect attempts to replay previous commands and reject them. 

Reviewer: Please can the mitigation tag/name be consistent in typesetting across all of the mitigations. E.g. Use CamelCase everywhere?

   
  
   .. unmitigated:: DM.PROTECTED
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: H
            
   .. residual:: DM.PROTECTED
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: L
      
   .. unmitigated:: DM.EXPOSED
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: H

   .. residual:: DM.EXPOSED
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: VL

   .. unmitigated:: DM.AUTHORISED
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: H

   .. residual:: DM.AUTHORISED
     :impact: H
     :likelihood: VL

   .. unmitigated:: DM.SECURE_CHANNEL
      :impact: VH
      :likelihood: H

   .. residual:: DM.SECURE_CHANNEL
     :impact: H
     :likelihood: VL

   .. mitigations:: in all deployment models `M.GlitchDetection` can be used to reduce the risk of a successful glitch. 
   

>       :mitigation:`ReadAfterWrite`, in all Deployment models, the Storage Service can perform a read operation immediately after a write, while it still retains the original value in memory and compare the two before confirming the write to the caller. However, this has performance challenges, Therefore the implementation may  decide to do this on a smapling basis. 

Reviewer: A couple of typos, and avoidance of non-preferred word 'may':

```suggestion
      :mitigation:`ReadAfterWrite`, in all Deployment models, the Storage Service can perform a read operation immediately after a write, while it still retains the original value in memory and compare the two before confirming the write to the caller. However, this has performance challenges, and therefore the implementation can decide to do this on a sampling basis. 

```

    
.. _sra-mitigations:

Mitigation Summary
------------------

> .. list-table:: Mitigations 

Reviewer: I like this by-DM summary. For this API, with very distinct implementation designs, this provides a valuable view of the mitigations.

As the attacker can always read and modify the stored data, even if they cannot decrypt the data. They can attempt to subvert a change by resetting the Storage Medium to a prior state. To detect this, the Storage Service needs to have some means of authenticating that it is reading the most recent state. This implies some form of authentication data stored in a location the attacker cannot modify.

In implementation `DM.AUTHORISED`, the data can be observed, even if it cannot be modified. Therefore, data stored does need to be encrypted for confidentiality. However, provided the authentication protocol is strong, and prevents replay, it should not be possible for an attacker to modify the stored data. As the store applies a MAC to each reply, the Storage Service does not need to apply extra integrity. 

In implementation `DM.SECURE_CHANNEL` provided the secure channel is rooted within the :term:`PRoT`, the data transferred cannot be observed, and any modification will be detected. Therefore, no further encryption is needed for confidentiality or integrity. 

> 

Reviewer: Can this section be structured in a similar way to the FWU SRA: https://github.com/ARM-software/psa-api/blob/80ea7319d0e86fae6d4328cf28ee3d188461ae69/doc/fwu/appendix/sra.rst?plain=1#L869

This splits the mitigations by Control-by-API, Transfer-to-implementation, and Transfer-to-application/other. It also provides a brief introduction to each summary table to explain this mitigation category.
